## Gender: What the GDPR does not tell us (But maybe you can?)

Gender is nowadays in a paradoxical state. On the one hand, some national laws, apps and online platforms appear to increasingly welcome the right of individuals to self-determine their own gender, which – it is more and more accepted – might even go beyond the traditional gender binary, potentially encompassing a multitude of diverse, non-confirming gender identities across a presumably fluid spectrum of possibilities. On the other hand, however, a variety of ‘AI solutions’ and related technologies are openly based on their presumed ability to ‘detect’ whether people are male or female: from facial recognition relying on ‘automated gender recognition’ to automated gender classification by social media based on the widespread monitoring of online ‘interests and behaviour’, the ways in which we are all being continuously gendered (and thus potentially re- and mis-gendered) are multiplying, almost always in an opaque manner. This interactive tutorial aims at exploring the potential of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) in helping us interrogating ongoing gendering data practices. For this purpose, it will introduce the key relevant notions and mechanisms of the GDPR, and open up the question of which are the rights of the data subject to know, and possibly ‘rectify’ (also creatively), their attributed genders. Hopefully, the audience will then suggest ways to go forward in this transparency endeavour.

### Who will be delivering this tutorial?
G. González Fuster, Research Professor at the Vrije Universiteit Brussel (VUB). Member of the Law, Science, Technology and Society (LSTS) Research Group
